DEVELOPER_GUIDE.md, before:

# Developer Guide

## Linter and Test Suite 
Run the linter and test suite to ensure your changes do not break existing code:

```
# Install Nox for task management
$ python -m pip install nox

# Auto-format and lint your changes
$ nox -rs format

# Run the test suite
$ nox -rs test
```

## Integration Tests
To run the integration tests locally, run:

```
./.ci/run-tests opensearch true
```

The first argument, `opensearch` tells the server type to run integration test against. Valid values are `opensearch` and `opendistro`. The second argument tells whether to run server with security plugin enabled or not.

Note that integration tests require docker to be installed and running, and downloads quite a bit of data from over the internet and hence take few minutes to complete.

## Build the Documentation with Sphinx
This are the steps to build the documentation with [Sphinx](https://www.sphinx-doc.org/):

1. change into the `opensearch-py` directory where `setup.py` is located
2. install opensearch-py - we recommend [editable mode](https://pip.pypa.io/en/stable/cli/pip_install/#cmdoption-e
    - with bash: `pip install -e .[docs]`
    - with zsh: `pip install -e .\[docs]`
4. change into the `docs` directory
5. execute `make html`
6. use your favorite web browser to open the file called `opensearch-py/docs/build/html/index.html`

Commit message:

Add support to test against various versions of OpenSearch (#146) (#158)
* Adding support to run integration tests across various versions of OpenSearch

Signed-off-by: Vacha Shah <vachshah@amazon.com>

* Adding a compatibility matrix and getting started guide with formatting

Signed-off-by: Vacha Shah <vachshah@amazon.com>

* Splitting jobs for opendistro and opensearch

Signed-off-by: Vacha Shah <vachshah@amazon.com>

DEVELOPER_GUIDE.md, after:

- [Developer Guide](#developer-guide)
  - [Linter and Test Suite](#linter-and-test-suite)
  - [Integration Tests](#integration-tests)
  - [Build the Documentation with Sphinx](#build-the-documentation-with-sphinx)

# Developer Guide

## Linter and Test Suite 
Run the linter and test suite to ensure your changes do not break existing code:

```
# Install Nox for task management
$ python -m pip install nox

# Auto-format and lint your changes
$ nox -rs format

# Run the test suite
$ nox -rs test
```

## Integration Tests
To run the integration tests locally, run:

```
./.ci/run-tests opensearch true 1.3.0
```

The first argument, `opensearch` tells the server type to run integration test against. Valid values are `opensearch` and `opendistro`. 
The second argument tells whether to run server with security plugin enabled or not.
The third argument specifies the version of OpenSearch the tests should run against, if not specified, the tests run against the latest version. This argument is ignored if the server type is `opendistro`. 

Note that integration tests require docker to be installed and running, and downloads quite a bit of data from over the internet and hence take few minutes to complete.

## Build the Documentation with Sphinx
This are the steps to build the documentation with [Sphinx](https://www.sphinx-doc.org/):

1. change into the `opensearch-py` directory where `setup.py` is located
2. install opensearch-py - we recommend [editable mode](https://pip.pypa.io/en/stable/cli/pip_install/#cmdoption-e
    - with bash: `pip install -e .[docs]`
    - with zsh: `pip install -e .\[docs]`
4. change into the `docs` directory
5. execute `make html`
6. use your favorite web browser to open the file called `opensearch-py/docs/build/html/index.html`
