README.md, before:


[![Release](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-py/actions/workflows/unified-release.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-py/actions/workflows/unified-release.yml)
[![CI](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-py/actions/workflows/ci.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-py/actions/workflows/ci.yml)
[![Integration](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-py/actions/workflows/integration.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-py/actions/workflows/integration.yml)
[![Chat](https://img.shields.io/badge/chat-on%20forums-blue)](https://discuss.opendistrocommunity.dev/c/clients/)
![PRs welcome!](https://img.shields.io/badge/PRs-welcome!-success)

![OpenSearch logo](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-py/raw/main/OpenSearch.svg)

OpenSearch Python Client

- [Welcome!](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-py#welcome)
- [User guide](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-py#user-guide)
- [API Doc](https://opensearch-project.github.io/opensearch-py/)
- [Compatibility with OpenSearch](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-py#compatibility-with-opensearch)
- [Project Resources](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-py#project-resources)
- [Code of Conduct](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-py#code-of-conduct)
- [License](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-py#license)
- [Copyright](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-py#copyright)

## Welcome!

**opensearch-py** is [a community-driven, open source fork](https://aws.amazon.com/blogs/opensource/introducing-opensearch/)
of elasticsearch-py licensed under the [Apache v2.0 License](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-py/blob/main/LICENSE.txt). 
For more information, see [opensearch.org](https://opensearch.org/) and the [API Doc](https://opensearch-project.github.io/opensearch-py/).

This is the low-level client. A high-level Python client is in the works, and will be available soon.

## Getting Started

To get started with the OpenSearch Python Client, see [Getting Started](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-py/blob/main/GETTING_STARTED.md).

## Compatibility with OpenSearch

See [Compatibility](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-py/blob/main/COMPATIBILITY.md).

## Project Resources

* [Project Website](https://opensearch.org/)
* [Downloads](https://opensearch.org/downloads.html)
* [Documentation](https://opensearch.org/docs/)
* Need help? Try [Forums](https://discuss.opendistrocommunity.dev/)
* [Project Principles](https://opensearch.org/#principles)
* [Contributing to OpenSearch](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-py/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md)
* [Maintainer Responsibilities](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-py/blob/main/MAINTAINERS.md)
* [Release Management](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-py/blob/main/RELEASING.md)
* [Admin Responsibilities](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-py/blob/main/ADMINS.md)
* [Security](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-py/blob/main/SECURITY.md)

## Code of Conduct

This project has adopted the 
[Amazon Open Source Code of Conduct](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-py/blob/main/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md).
For more information see the [Code of Conduct FAQ](https://aws.github.io/code-of-conduct-faq), or contact 
[opensource-codeofconduct@amazon.com](mailto:opensource-codeofconduct@amazon.com) with any additional questions or comments.

## License

This project is licensed under the
[Apache v2.0 License](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-py/blob/main/LICENSE.txt).

## Copyright

Copyright OpenSearch Contributors. See 
[NOTICE](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-py/blob/main/NOTICE.txt) for details.

Commit message:

Renaming Getting started to User guide
Renaming Getting started to User guide.

Signed-off-by: Sai Medhini Reddy Maryada <saimedhi@amazon.com>

Update USER_GUIDE.md

Renaming getting started to user guide

Signed-off-by: Sai Medhini Reddy Maryada <saimedhi@amazon.com>

Update CHANGELOG.md

Adding a change "Renaming Get started to User guide".

Signed-off-by: Sai Medhini Reddy Maryada <saimedhi@amazon.com>

Signed-off-by: Sai Medhini Reddy Maryada <saimedhi@amazon.com>

README.md, after:


[![Release](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-py/actions/workflows/unified-release.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-py/actions/workflows/unified-release.yml)
[![CI](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-py/actions/workflows/ci.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-py/actions/workflows/ci.yml)
[![Integration](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-py/actions/workflows/integration.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-py/actions/workflows/integration.yml)
[![Chat](https://img.shields.io/badge/chat-on%20forums-blue)](https://discuss.opendistrocommunity.dev/c/clients/)
![PRs welcome!](https://img.shields.io/badge/PRs-welcome!-success)

![OpenSearch logo](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-py/raw/main/OpenSearch.svg)

OpenSearch Python Client

- [Welcome!](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-py#welcome)
- [User guide](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-py#user-guide)
- [API Doc](https://opensearch-project.github.io/opensearch-py/)
- [Compatibility with OpenSearch](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-py#compatibility-with-opensearch)
- [Project Resources](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-py#project-resources)
- [Code of Conduct](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-py#code-of-conduct)
- [License](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-py#license)
- [Copyright](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-py#copyright)

## Welcome!

**opensearch-py** is [a community-driven, open source fork](https://aws.amazon.com/blogs/opensource/introducing-opensearch/)
of elasticsearch-py licensed under the [Apache v2.0 License](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-py/blob/main/LICENSE.txt). 
For more information, see [opensearch.org](https://opensearch.org/) and the [API Doc](https://opensearch-project.github.io/opensearch-py/).

This is the low-level client. A high-level Python client is in the works, and will be available soon.

## User guide

For User guide of OpenSearch Python Client, see [User guide](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-py/blob/main/USER_GUIDE.md).

## Compatibility with OpenSearch

See [Compatibility](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-py/blob/main/COMPATIBILITY.md).

## Project Resources

* [Project Website](https://opensearch.org/)
* [Downloads](https://opensearch.org/downloads.html)
* [Documentation](https://opensearch.org/docs/)
* Need help? Try [Forums](https://discuss.opendistrocommunity.dev/)
* [Project Principles](https://opensearch.org/#principles)
* [Contributing to OpenSearch](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-py/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md)
* [Maintainer Responsibilities](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-py/blob/main/MAINTAINERS.md)
* [Release Management](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-py/blob/main/RELEASING.md)
* [Admin Responsibilities](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-py/blob/main/ADMINS.md)
* [Security](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-py/blob/main/SECURITY.md)

## Code of Conduct

This project has adopted the 
[Amazon Open Source Code of Conduct](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-py/blob/main/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md).
For more information see the [Code of Conduct FAQ](https://aws.github.io/code-of-conduct-faq), or contact 
[opensource-codeofconduct@amazon.com](mailto:opensource-codeofconduct@amazon.com) with any additional questions or comments.

## License

This project is licensed under the
[Apache v2.0 License](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-py/blob/main/LICENSE.txt).

## Copyright

Copyright OpenSearch Contributors. See 
[NOTICE](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-py/blob/main/NOTICE.txt) for details.
