guides/json.md, before:

- [Making Raw JSON REST Requests](#making-raw-json-rest-requests)
  - [GET](#get)
  - [PUT](#put)
  - [POST](#post)
  - [DELETE](#delete)

# Making Raw JSON REST Requests

The OpenSearch client implements many high-level REST DSLs that invoke OpenSearch APIs. However you may find yourself in a situation that requires you to invoke an API that is not supported by the client. Use `client.transport.perform_request` to do so. See [samples/json](../samples/json) for a complete working sample.

## GET

The following example returns the server version information via `GET /`.

```python
info = client.transport.perform_request('GET', '/')
print(f"Welcome to {info['version']['distribution']} {info['version']['number']}!")
```

Note that the client will parse the response as JSON when appropriate.

## PUT

The following example creates an index.

```python
index_body = {
  'settings': {
    'index': {
      'number_of_shards': 4
    }
  }
}

client.transport.perform_request("PUT", "/movies", body=index_body)
```

Note that the client will raise errors automatically. For example, if the index already exists, an `opensearchpy.exceptions.RequestError: RequestError(400, 'resource_already_exists_exception',` will be thrown.

## POST

The following example searches for a document.

```python
q = 'miller'

query = {
  'size': 5,
  'query': {
    'multi_match': {
      'query': q,
      'fields': ['title^2', 'director']
    }
  }
}

client.transport.perform_request("POST", "/movies/_search", body = query)
```

## DELETE

The following example deletes an index.

```python
client.transport.perform_request("DELETE", "/movies")
```

Commit message:

Added client-level REST helpers. (#544)
* Added client-level REST helpers.

Signed-off-by: dblock <dblock@amazon.com>

* Move functions into an .http namespace.

Signed-off-by: dblock <dblock@amazon.com>

* Poetry update in samples.

Signed-off-by: dblock <dblock@amazon.com>

* Fix: typo.

Signed-off-by: dblock <dblock@amazon.com>

* Clarified what to use in which older versions.

Signed-off-by: dblock <dblock@amazon.com>

---------

Signed-off-by: dblock <dblock@amazon.com>

guides/json.md, after:

- [Making Raw JSON REST Requests](#making-raw-json-rest-requests)
  - [GET](#get)
  - [PUT](#put)
  - [POST](#post)
  - [DELETE](#delete)

# Making Raw JSON REST Requests

The OpenSearch client implements many high-level REST DSLs that invoke OpenSearch APIs. However you may find yourself in a situation that requires you to invoke an API that is not supported by the client. Use `client.http.get`, `head` , `put`, `post`, and `delete` to do so. See [samples/json](../samples/json) for a complete working sample.

## GET

The following example returns the server version information via `GET /`.

```python
info = client.get("/")
print(f"Welcome to {info["version"]["distribution"]} {info["version"]["number"]}!")
```

Note that the client will parse the response as JSON when appropriate.

These methods are also available in the asynchronous client.

```python
info = await client.http.get("/")
print(f"Welcome to {info["version"]["distribution"]} {info["version"]["number"]}!")
```

Use `perform_request` in older versions (<= 2.3.x), and `client.http.get` and others in newer ones.

```python
info = client.transport.perform_request("GET", "/")
print(f"Welcome to {info["version"]["distribution"]} {info["version"]["number"]}!")
```

## PUT

The following example creates an index.

```python
index_body = {
  "settings": {
    "index": {
      "number_of_shards": 4
    }
  }
}

client.http.put("/movies", body=index_body)
```

Note that the client will raise errors automatically. For example, if the index already exists, an `opensearchpy.exceptions.RequestError: RequestError(400, "resource_already_exists_exception",` will be thrown.

## POST

The following example searches for a document.

```python
q = "miller"

query = {
  "size": 5,
  "query": {
    "multi_match": {
      "query": q,
      "fields": ["title^2", "director"]
    }
  }
}

client.http.post("/movies/_search", body = query)
```

## DELETE

The following example deletes an index.

```python
client.http.delete("/movies")
```
